Chris Stasiak
Chief Technology Officer (CTO), Co-founder & Partner

Barcelona
+447526568409

Visionary and goal-oriented executive, researcher, software engineer, and system architect with over 15 years of commercial experience for European, US, and Chinese markets. Mainly focused on unique and large-scale platforms under agile, kanban, and scrum development. Initiated and enforced strict budget controlling tools addressing business needs and supporting development. Adept at crisis management, trouble-shooting and problem-solving.

PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: Carrer de Calabria 86, Barcelona, 08015
  Date of birth: 26.08.1982 Poland
  Nationality: Polish
  Driving License: B
  Hobbies: hiking, traveling, skiing, robotics, machine learning

SOCIAL PROFILES
  * LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/krzysztof-chris-stasiak-6261244b/
  * GitHub: https://github.com/kris-lab
  * Blog: https://blog.kris-lab.com

LANGUAGES
  ★★★★★ Polish
  ★★★★☆ English

SKILLS
  ★★★★★ Fast Learner
  ★★★★★ Creative Thinking
  ★★★★★ Highly Motivated
  ★★★★★ Leadership and Teamwork
  ★★★★★ LeSS, Scrum, Agile, Kanban
  ★★★★★ Global, Distributed & Domain Driver Architecture, High Availability Ecosystems
  ★★★★★ PHP5+, Golang, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Bash, Terraform, Puppet
  ★★★★☆ AI, Machine Learning, Data Science, Tensorflow, Torch
  ★★★★★ DevOps & Sysadmin, Kubernetes, Docker, Ansible
  ★★★★★ JIRA, Confluence, Slack
  ★★★★★ CI/CD, Automated Testing, Jenkins, Travis
  ★★★★☆ Business Intelligence, Tableau, StitchData
  ★★★★★ Debian & Ubuntu & OSX
  ★★★★★ Bare Metal & Virtualization & Containerization
  ★★★★★ Network Protocols, HLS, RTP, RTCP, WebRTC, TCP/UDP, HTTPx
  ★★★★★ Media Processing, FFmpeg, Gstreamer
  ★★★★★ VR, AR, MR, 360, Monoscopic, Stereoscopic, Volumetric media

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * April 2017 – Present
    CTO & Partner at Vrenetic, Inc., Los Angeles, London, Warsaw, Kiev, Bejing
      Bringing the next generation of ultra-high quality 360&amp;VR live streaming and low-latency communication on consumer mobile devices and enabling VR ready social interactions using the VR publishing tools for user-generated content. Transforming challenging vision and ideas into a self-breathing ecosystem. Focused on customer and b2b oriented products

  Hiring from scratch &amp; managing 40+ people team in California/Europe (LeSS/Scrum)
  Research for the next generation of VR/AR/MR and social media
  Recommendations and support for CEO and stakeholders
  Vision definition, clarification, and roadmap planning &amp; controlling
  Customer and b2b products definition, schedule, roadmap, and sing-off
  Budget estimations, planning, controlling, and reporting to stakeholders.
  Business model definition, execution, adjustments, and controlling
  Startup culture and best practices overview
  Coordination of product managers and product owners
  Coordination of project managers
  Technology roadmap, planning, execution, and controlling
  Coordination of platform and media Solution Architects, DevOps, and SysAdmins
  Long term and large scale operations roadmap, optimization, and migrations
  Security audits and controlling
  Best practices roadmap, planning and controlling
  Occasionally leading low-level teams of various expertise
  Source code quality reviews and best practices audits
  Source code and products roadmap coverage review and orchestration
  Making sure the business needs are met on design, development, and operation level
  Occasionally coding in puppet, ruby, CPP, js, PHP, and performing DevOps tasks!
  Overview and management of day-to-day delivery risks
  Managing cooperation with outsourcing development organizations. Lead for 3rd party project managers and solution architects.


Technical leadership for Vrenetic's stack

  JAVA, Node.JS, C++, Unity3D, Go, Kotlin, Swift, Terraform, Ruby, Puppet, Python
  DB: MongoDB, Object Storage (S3), Redis, TusD, RabbitMQ, PubNub, Global CDN
  AI/ML: Tensorflow, Keras + TPU
  CI/CD: multi-region cluster of Jenkins Master/Slaves; Travis; BitRise
  BI: Tableau Ecosystem; StitchData with RedShift; Matillion ETL
  DC: Softlayer, AWS, Hetzner
  Monitoring: Grafana, Karma, Prometheus, PagerDuty, AlertManager
  Encryption: BlackBox, GPG, Keybase, Loggly
  Infra: Kubernetes, Traefik, Docker, Terraform, Ansible, Nexus
  Standards: oAuth, OpenAPI/Swagger, ProtoBuf/ZMQ, REST
  Protocols: HLS/TCP, RTP/UDP, RTCP/UDP; h.264/h.265/Opus; WebRTC; NVENC
  Media: GStreamer Framework, FFmpeg, Spring, Angular, iOS API, Android API
  VR/360: GPU/Media real-time 360 Transcoding/Reprojections/Transformations/Effects; Janus WebRTC; UDP Proxy
  Architecture: micro-services oriented; full OOP, TDD, E2E, MVC; abstracted to the backend (business logic layer, media engine layer, AI layer), middleware, frontend with SDKs, libs, plugins, and clients
  Patterns: high availability, scalability with multi-region zero downtime deployment and data residency (GDPR) support; global media replication


  * March 2013 – March 2017
    DevOps Architect & Team Lead, Researcher at Cargomedia AG        (4 years), Basel
      
  Responsible for global automation, scalability, security, monitoring of applications &amp; infrastructure deployment. Large scale deployment with 20+ million registered users and 30+ million monthly unique active users. Constantly researching, proving concepts, and introducing new solutions. Leading teams.
  Expertise in high performance, clean OO PHP, Node.JS, Puppet, Ruby, Go, JS, Shell. Agile, Kanban. Full TDD and BDD. Focused on full DevOps workflow with AWS, Softlayer, and Hetzner solutions.


  * June 2012 – March 2013
    Senior Software Engineer & Researcher at Newicon, Ltd                    (1 year), Bristol
      
  Researching, designing, and implementing iOS app (Objective-C) for image processing, object recognition, and machine learning - more at https://newicon.net/case-study-airbus-app
  Researching, designing, and implementing web-based systems and applications (PHP, JS, Yii, Backbone.js, MongoDB, Redis, Node.js, Sockets, etc.) with real-time communication
  Researching, designing, and implementing a Client-Server real-time messaging system: multiclient/multichannel architecture. Support for user authorization, activity history, users on-line, auto-login, storing undelivered messages, receipts, etc. (Node.js, Socket.io; Redis, MongoDB; Curl, Websockets, API; PHP/JavaScript, etc.). Responsible for DevOps, scalability, and GEO architecture.


  * August 2008 – February 2012
    Chief Technology Officer at KWG S.A. (PBG Group)                          (4 years), Szczecin
      Responsible for planning of the IT strategy and cost reduction. Acceptance of IT documents and costs using the company ERP system. Collaborating with all departments to improve information technologies and enhance communication.

  auditing, reporting to the board
  planning and controlling annual budgets
  managing systems of data security
  supervising workflow of IT documents



EDUCATION
  * September 2005 – September 2007
    Technical University of Poznan, Poznań MSc

    The MSc course was completed. Embedded Systems @ Faculty of Computer Science
  * September 2002 – September 2005
    Technical University of Poznan, Poznań BSc

    BSc, Automation, and Management @ Faculty of Computer Science

REFERENCES
  * Latest references only upon request from 
    https://blog.kris-lab.com/references/

